All right, so audience, Scenario 1,
you're dealing with some interpersonal
conflict within your team.
Engineer 1 and Engineer 2 are having some
aggressive behavior in code reviews.
How would you have approached this?
You heard what Jem and I both said.
What are some suggestions you have?
Yes?
>> Well, I think it's kinda been
a theme over this last two days anyway,
is the approaching things with
curiosity and good intent.
>> Yep.
>> And
maybe giving that feedback to Engineer2
when they're doing code reviews.
I know me, personally, when I'm doing code
reviews, I look at it initially and go,
I wouldn't do it that way.
And I'm like, wait, but there's
a bunch of different ways to do it.
Might be in a different way, maybe it's
not adhering to the coding standards or
whatever, but just kind of having
that engineer kinda have that
mindset might help for better,
less combative code reviews.
>> Absolutely, yeah, cuz positive
intent going both ways is so good.
Yes, go ahead.
>> I think one thing jumps out is,
well, in this scenario,
you could go look at the code reviews and
see the actual comments.
I think the other thing I
would be curious about, too,
is this just a problem with Engineer 1 or
the entire team?
To understand if the entire team
is kind of feeling this way or
these comments do appear somewhat
aggressive on other code reviews as well.
But then also, too, if it's something
I need to work with Engineer 2 on,
kind of going through and coaching that,
maybe they don't have ill intent.
Maybe it is a cultural way in which they
are speaking, different things like that.
Everyone comes from different backgrounds,
so maybe it's just the way that their
messages come off in a digital world
that's misconstrued all the time.
So kind of coaching them how to maybe add
a little bit of fluff in there when you
wanna give feedback.
Or use ChatGPT to kind of learn some
better ways to soften some ways to give
constructive feedback.
And kind of giving them those tools, so
that they can be successful
within the team as well.
>> I love that too.
And I think just touching on that too is
in a remote world, we're relying a lot
more on Slack, and text-based, and
it's really hard to know the tone, right?
And so even just getting those two
people to have a conversation outside of
a chat is huge.
But I love what you said there, too,
is there's also tools to kind of,
can you make this sound less harsh?
And ChatGPT will help you there.
>> Jump off what you
said about ill intent.
You don't know what's going on fully,
you may, but you may not,
know what's going on fully
in other people's lives.
And so some things could be bleeding
through, maybe unintentional.
And so, yeah, starting with
the assumption that people aren't coming
into the conversations with ill intent.
Kind of that curiosity, but maybe a
different coin of that, side of the coin.
>> Yeah, I mean even for, going back to
the remote world, I will say that for me,
if I'm bouncing between meetings,
I do get Slack messages to people.
And I'm quick to respond, and
my tone might have been off.
And that sucks if someone reads that or
misinterprets that.
And so I was just quick to respond, that
person might have just been quick giving
feedback because they're
behind on something.
They still wanna give feedback
on a pull request, but
it wasn't their intent to necessarily
come across in that tone.
So I think it is really good,
I guess curiosity we've called out, but
understanding someone's
intent can go a long way.
There's one more comment.
>> For this one specific example, I wanted
to remind people that you can actually
leave positive comments in code review.
>> Yes, yes.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I joined a team once and
I actually had somebody give feedback,
and they were like,
I never even thought to give positive
feedback, on something that they liked.
And I was like, yeah, that's an option.
>> Positive feedback goes a long way.
Yes, it really, truly does.
And it's so easy to forget.
All right, we'll jump to Scenario 2,
where you've had the partner disagreement.
Curious of your thoughts.
Or I guess it wasn't
partners disagreement, but
necessarily a two team, one person on
your team and one on another team.
Yeah?
>> Actually literally had
this happen last week.
We had a contractor working
on some things that didn't
follow the process of having
two approvals on their PR.
And also added some NPM dependencies that
didn't have a clear explanation for why.
And it seemed hadn't addressed feedback or
didn't get feedback on why
that would be happening.
And so I had two separate people from
two different teams come to me saying,
hey, I'm concerned about this.
There's some knowledge gaps
in terms of how to use git.
There was a lack of understanding
on how reverts work and
how to rework the original
work into a better state.
And I got a message just today talking
about how, after I let them know,
here, I'll work with my partner manager,
we'll bring this to his attention.
I'll look through what's going on and
find out, and then let's find
a way to give that feedback in
a constructive way to the other person.
And I had one of the two engineers who
was complaining reach out to me today,
say, hey, this engineer reached out
to me asking for help with this.
I worked with him on it, and
then I found out it's more complicated
than I thought it was originally.
So I'll work with him on how to solve it.
>> That's awesome.
Yeah, these are real world scenarios, too.
And I love how you've approached that,
too.
And just even something like git,
maybe there's just someone
didn't fully understand that, and you need
to up-level that knowledge on the team and
just make people feel more
comfortable in that space too.
Yeah?
>> I think with this one, too, it's kind
of sitting with that engineer and saying,
all right, let's check the facts
of what everything is and
then let's also check our biases.
So what on the team, say you've got
a front end team and a back end team.
So these engineers on the front end team,
they think it should work in a certain way
because they're consuming
the back end in a certain way.
Vice versa, the back end team might think
they have to do something that way.
So trying to figure out the biases
between how those teams work and
how maybe those things could work together
and kind of coaching them through.
Being able to ask those questions and
recognize,
this makes your team's life easier, but
it makes them ten times harder there.
So having those kind of conversations with
the engineer as well to really understand
what this scenario is, but also then help
them think about it in different ways and
put themselves in their shoes.
>> I love that.
And I'm smiling because I feel like
I recently have dealt with this.
Even just in my team,
I do have front end and back end, and
full-stack engineers on
the product they're working on.
And that has happened, where it's like,
well, why can't the back end do this?
And it's kinda back and forth, and
you have to try and understand,
going back to some of those trade-offs of,
well, yeah, you think that it should, but
it's so much harder on there, and maybe it
is actually better for the UI to do this.
Just kind of approaching it that way too
is like, what's the best for the business,
and getting us there?
That's awesome.
All right, what about customers?
You've gotten feedback on
the product that you work on.
This one was really specific probably,
too, an internal customer being able to
bring this attention, but you have
products out in the world too that,
I mean, I see feedback on Twitter
on what Netflix should do.
It happens, and
how do you maybe address it?
I think it's easier to
address with internal, but
I'm curious your thoughts on this one?
Yeah?
>> One of the things that Jem mentioned,
I recall,
was just taking that perspective of
having empathy for your customer.
Seeing things from their perspective
goes a long way to really
understanding in what way the product
isn't meeting their expectations or
their needs or solving their use case.
One thing I'm always sure to do in
those situations is thank them for
providing the feedback.
>> Yes.
>> Because a lot of times,
especially with internal customers.
I think you had mentioned this, too, is
you'll hear about it when things go wrong
most of the time, but you don't always
hear when you're doing things right.
So just thanking them and making sure that
they know the feedback is appreciated,
whether it's positive or constructive,
keeps that line of communication open and
bidirectional.
So yeah, I think it's really important
to have a shared empathy for
what is it that we're trying to solve,
and how are we going about solving it?
>> I love the thanknyou part.
Thank you for the feedback.
It's a gift.
Thank you.
You don't have to accept it all, and
you don't have to act on it all, but
you're hearing it, and you want people
to bring that to your attention.
If they're not giving you that feedback,
you're flying blind on a lot of it.
So that is a good callout.
All right, we'll jump.
Sorry, I'll go back.
>> Yeah, the customers,
as Jem and Evan said,
it's a good part to have
the conversation around it.
Cuz I think a lot of in software, and
I love feedback that I get from my family
and stuff, cuz they know I can understand
how the software is built or architected.
It's like, well,
what are the steps you took to get there?
Cuz I think you put analytics in software
to understand how users are using it.
And if you have the opportunity to talk
to a customer and say, I know exactly how
you're using it, is so key to then
probably unlocking so many more doors.
>> Yeah,
even being able to sit down with them and
have them walk you through is like,
I didn't intend that you do that.
And it's like you can see how
someone uses it, I love that.
All right, last one, leadership.
Someone's adding scope to your plate,
coming down from higher above,
how would you approach this scenario?
Yeah?
>> I think the big thing is presenting
all of the information typically on
your JIRA board, whatever, of hey, this
is all the work we have in the pipeline,
showing that, giving that visual of if we
bring this in, where does it fall into?
If we haven't started these
three other things yet,
does this get started before that?
Of yes, all three of these things say must
have, but in the worst-case scenario,
what slips?
And if that can't slip,
is the timeline negotiable?
Different things like that, just trying to
really understand that, and kind of having
that visual too of that work, I think
sometimes can help with that conversation.
It's hard to say we're
already at bandwidth.
So being able to have that in there.
And sometimes even putting
those placeholders in place for
those things that
are keeping the lights on.
So that that's represented, because
sometimes your leaders are gonna be much
higher up, and
they're very far from the code.
And so being able to have that as, this
is a big chunk of our time of having to
fulfill these different requests for
things and stuff,
this is tangible work the engineering is
doing, that we can't stop doing that.
So I think that's kind
of how you approach it.
>> Yeah, you wanna kinda
help me educate upward, too.
As much as you as a manager might be
that much closer to your team's work,
I still rely on my team to educate
me in the depth of where they're at.
So it's kind of like you're
pushing that information up.
I love that call out.
Something I didn't touch on, too,
that is really helpful, is maybe that your
team is right now, this quarter, has all
the D priorities, the top one priorities.
And so maybe you have to do it,
everything's the P0.
You should never have all P0s, but,
hey, maybe that's the case, and
this one thing is so truly, nothing
else can slip, this has to come in.
I look to my leader to go, well,
they have vantage points into other areas
that I'm not the only team
that they're seen over.
Can we build a virtual team?
Can we pull in some other engineers?
Could another priority in our org
get dropped so that we can do this?
And I think that kind of dovetailed off
what you were saying, is it's educating
them a bit and having those conversations
>> This was asked a little bit
earlier related to metrics, but
kinda fitting for this scenario.
What happens when the decisions
about metrics, or tracking,
are made at the senior leadership level?
At that kind of level where even
your manager isn't helpful at
changing the situation?
>> Yeah, that happens.
I mean,, there again, I would probably
take Emily's approach there too,
is educating as much as possible.
Make sure that you're giving as
much information as possible.
But also curiosity, what information
are you possibly missing for your team?
As a manager, I wanna make sure that
my team has the full picture, but
there's often gaps too.
So I wanna understand,
what am I missing, right?
You're pushing this metric down.
What am I missing?
Why is this so important?
How's that gonna work?
And it takes a lot of back and forth.
I think the wrong thing to do
in that scenario is just, well,
my manager told me to do it, right?
I don't want engineers
on my team saying that.
I don't wanna take orders like that,
either.
And I don't think my manager above me or
above them wants that to happen either.
We're all in this together, and
we see it from different vantage points.
And so I think there's no simple answer
to that, but I think it's really
understanding both sides and
trying to come to a common ground and
sharing all the trade-offs
that may possibly happen.
And then you kind of get a little
bit closer to a picture of what
should go forward.
All right, now,
we've talked a lot about giving and
receiving feedback throughout
this whole session.
I think it is so critical as a manager
to be able to give feedback,
but also to receive feedback.
So we've also talked about
creating psychological safety.
I think this is absolutely an area where,
as a manager,
I'm thinking about how do I foster
psychological safety for my team?
How do I make sure that there's trust and
that we're able and
comfortable enough to make mistakes,
to give each other feedback?
Feel that we're having the best intent.
And there are ways that you can try and
help build this overtime.
You can't force it.
You can't say, hey, we all just
gonna give each other feedback,
it's gonna be all easy and everything.
You have to kinda set the example.
Maybe it's being vulnerable about, you
know what, I got feedback from my manager
the other day that I'm not communicating
enough about what my team's doing.
And so that's feedback I got.
I'm gonna share that with all of you.
And maybe you can help me make sure
that I'm highlighting the things that my
leaders should know about.
And so we can work on that together, but
it also was vulnerable that I shared
something that I'm getting feedback on.
So you wanna help create that environment
of trust, share mistakes, and
build trust with your direct reports.
And that's really for
the receiving feedback.
And something that was called out earlier
is, even just saying thanks for feedback.
I celebrate when people give me feedback.
And sometimes it might even be in Slack,
David on my team shared that
I should do better at this.
And he's not wrong, and
just celebrating and
kind of calling attention to that and
encouraging others to do the same.